Option Explicit 

Private Declare Function MoveWindow Lib "user32" (ByVal hwnd as Long, ByVal x as Long, ByVal y as Long, ByVal nWidth as Long, ByVal nHeight as Long, ByVal bRepaint as Long) as Long 

Private Sub Form_Load() 
Dim i as Integer 

    ' Make a bunch of ComboBox entries.
    For i = 1 To 50 
        cboTestCombo.AddItem Format$(i) 
    Next i 
    cboTestCombo.ListIndex = 0 

    ' Resize the ComboBox's dropdown area.
    SizeCombo Me, cboTestCombo, 130, 350 

End Sub 
' Resize a ComboBox's dropdown display area.
Public Sub SizeCombo(frm as Form, CBo as ComboBox, w as Long, h as Long) 
Dim cbleft as Integer 
Dim cbtop as Integer 
Dim scalemode as Integer 

    ' Change the Scale Mode on the form to Pixels.
    scalemode = frm.scalemode 
    frm.scalemode = vbPixels 

    ' Save the ComboBox's Left, Top values.
    cbleft = cbo.Left 
    cbtop = cbo.Top 

    frm.scalemode = scalemode 

    ' Resize the combo box window.
    MoveWindow cbo.hwnd, cbleft, cbtop, w, h, 1 
End Sub 

'-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
'Another example of usage

Option Explicit
Private Declare Function MoveWindow Lib "user32" (ByVal hwnd As Long, ByVal x As Long, ByVal y As Long, ByVal nWidth As Long, ByVal nHeight As Long, ByVal bRepaint As Long) As Long

Private Sub Form_Load()

   'load Combo1 with some data
   Combo1.AddItem "January"
   Combo1.AddItem "Febuary"
   Combo1.AddItem "March"
   Combo1.AddItem "April"
   Combo1.AddItem "May"
   Combo1.AddItem "June"
   Combo1.AddItem "July"
   Combo1.AddItem "August"
   'normally the combobox would stop here
   Combo1.AddItem "September"
   Combo1.AddItem "October"
   Combo1.AddItem "November"
   Combo1.AddItem "December"
   
   'change scale to pixels if it is not already pixels
   'api likes pixels
   Me.scalemode = vbPixels
   
   '130 is width value , 180 is height value. Change these to suit your needs.
   MoveWindow Combo1.hwnd, Combo1.Left, Combo1.Top, 130, 180, 1
   'Note: the position can be changed also by changing the .Left and .Top values
   
   'change scale back to Twips or to whatever it was, if pixels is not desired
   Me.scalemode = vbTwips
End Sub

