


'**************************************
' Name: SetColorBar
' Description:
'Creates a color bar background for a Li
'     stView when in 
'report mode. Passing the listview and p
'     icturebox allows 
'you to use this with more than one cont
'     rol. You can also 
'change the colors used for each by pass
'     ing new RGB color 
'values in the optional color parameters
'     .
' By: 
'
' Inputs:
'Required - cListView As ListView
'Required - cColorBar As PictureBox
'Optional - lColor1 As Long
'Optional - lColor2 As Long
'
' Assumes:
'Add the following line of code to your 
'     program, 
'replacing "lvListView" and "picColorBar
'     " with the 
'names of your own control values. The c
'     olor values 
'are optional; while the default is Gree
'     n/White, 
'these create gray bars.
'SetColorBar lvListView, picColorBar, &H
'     C0C0C0, &H808080
'
' Side Effects:
'Sets ListView Picture to none if not in
'     report 
'mode or on error condition.
'
'This code is copyrighted and has
' limited warranties.Please see http://w
'     ww.Planet-Source-Code.com/vb/scripts/Sho
'     wCode.asp?txtCodeId=2746&lngWId=1
'for details.
'**************************************



Public Sub SetColorBar(cListView As ListView, cColorBar As PictureBox, Optional lColor1 As Long = &HE2F1E3, Optional lColor2 As Long = vbWhite)
    ' Creates a color bar background for a L
    '     istView when in 
    ' report mode. Passing the listview and 
    '     picturebox allows 
    ' you to use this with more than one con
    '     trol. You can also 
    ' change the colors used for each by pas
    '     sing new RGB color 
    ' values in the optional color parameter
    '     s.
    Dim iLineHeight As Long
    Dim iBarHeight As Long
    Dim lBarWidth As Long
    On Error Goto SetColorBarError
    'set picture to none and exit sub if not
    '     in report mode
    If Not cListView.View = lvwReport Then Goto SetColorBarError
    'these can be commented out if the cColo
    '     rBar control 
    'is set correctly.
    cColorBar.AutoRedraw = True
    cColorBar.BorderStyle = vbBSNone
    cColorBar.ScaleMode = vbTwips
    cColorBar.Visible = False
    'set the alignment to "Tile" and you onl
    '     y need 
    'two bars of color.
    cListView.PictureAlignment = lvwTile
    'needed because ListView does not have "
    '     TextHeight"
    cColorBar.Font = cListView.Font
    'set height to a single line of text plu
    '     s a 
    'one pixel spacer.
    iLineHeight = cColorBar.TextHeight("|") + Screen.TwipsPerPixelY
    'set color bars to 3-line wide.
    iBarHeight = iLineHeight * 3
    lBarWidth = cListView.Width
    'resize the cColorBar picturebox
    cColorBar.Height = iBarHeight * 2
    cColorBar.Width = lBarWidth
    'paint the two bars of color
    cColorBar.Line (0, 0)-(lBarWidth, iBarHeight), lColor1, BF
    cColorBar.Line (0, iBarHeight)-(lBarWidth, iBarHeight * 2), lColor2, BF
    'set the cListView picture to the 
    'cColorBar image
    cListView.Picture = cColorBar.Image
    Exit Sub
    SetColorBarError:
    'clear cListView's picture and then exit
    '     
    cListView.Picture = LoadPicture("")
End Sub

