' Name: QuickScale...Scale down pictures
'     to thumbnail size
' Description:This code rescales a image
'     inside a picturebox maintaining the aspe
'     ct ratio of the image. 
Easily change The height And Width of The image. This Sub also centers The image  
If you desire or you can specify The location To place The image. Simpe To use And fast. 
' By: Harley Neal
'
'This code is copyrighted and has
' limited warranties.Please see http://w
'     ww.Planet-Source-Code.com/xq/ASP/txtCode
'     Id.5885/lngWId.1/qx/vb/scripts/ShowCode.
'     htm
'for details.
'**************************************

'Copy this code into a standard module.


Public Sub CreateThumb(PicBox as Object, ByVal ActualPic as StdPicture, ByVal MaxHeight as Integer, ByVal MaxWidth as Integer, Center as Boolean, Optional ByVal PicTop as Integer, Optional ByVal PicLeft as Integer) 
    'MaxHeight is max. image height allowed
    'MaxWidth is max. picture width allowed
    Dim NewH as Integer 'New Height 
    Dim NewW as Integer 'New Width 
    'set starting var.
    NewH = ActualPic.Height 'actual image height 
    NewW = ActualPic.Width 'actual image width 
    'do logic


    If NewH > MaxHeight or NewW > MaxWidth Then 'picture is too large 


        If NewH > NewW Then 'height is greater than width 
            NewW = Fix((NewW / NewH) * MaxHeight) 'rescale height 
            NewH = MaxHeight 'set max height 
        ElseIf NewW > NewH Then 'width is greater than height 
            NewH = Fix((NewH / NewW) * MaxWidth) 'rescale width 
            NewW = MaxHeight'set max Width 
            Debug.Print "Width>" 
        Else 'image is perfect square 
            NewH = MaxHeight 
            NewW = MaxWidth 
        End If 
    End If 
    'check if centered


    If Center = True Then 'center picture 
        PicTop = (PicBox.Height / 2) - (NewH / 2) 
        PicLeft = (PicBox.Width / 2) - (NewW / 2) 
    Else 'if Optional variables are missing Then and center=false 


        If IsMissing(PicTop) = True or IsMissing(PicLeft) = True Then 
            PicTop = 0 'Default top position 
            PicLeft = 0 'Default left position 
        End If 
    End If 
    'Draw newly scaled picture


    With PicBox 
        .AutoRedraw = True 'set needed properties 
        .Cls 'clear picture box 
        .PaintPicture ActualPic, PicLeft, PicTop, NewW, NewH 'paint new picture size in picturebox 
    End With 
End Sub 
'Examples of how to call this sub
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'this example loads a picture from a .re
'     s file and centers it in a picturebox.
CreateThumb Picture1,LoadResPicture(101,vbresbitmap),1000,1000,True 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'this example loads a picture from an im
'     age control and places it at (x,y) (100,
'     100).
 ' Image1.Picture = LoadPicture(Image Pathname)
 ' CreateThumb Picture1, Image1.Picture, 2000, 2000, True, 100, 100


