'************************************** 
'Windows API/Global Declarations for :Cheating the Printer 
'************************************** 
'Used for the shell printing
 Private Declare Function ShellExecute Lib "shell32.dll" Alias  "ShellExecuteA" (ByVal hwnd As Long, ByVal lpOperation As String, _
 ByVal lpFile As String, ByVal lpParameters As String, ByVal lpDirectory As String, ByVal nShowCmd As Long) As Long 
'Used to come up with the temp file dire ' ctory
 Private Declare Function GetTempPath Lib "kernel32" Alias "GetTempPathA" (ByVal nBufferLength As Long, _ 
ByVal lpBuffer As String) As Long 
'used to come up with the temp file name
 
Private Declare Function GetTempFileName Lib "kernel32" _ 
Alias "GetTempFileNameA" (ByVal lpszPath As String, _ ByVal lpPrefixString As String, ByVal wUnique As Long, _ ByVal lpTempFileName As String) As Long
 '************************************** 
' Name: Cheating the Printer ' Description:Why mess around with the p 
' rinter object if you don't have to? In m
 ' y example, I print the contents of a ric 
' htextbox control to the printer with onl
 ' y a couple of lines of code. PERFECTLY f ' ormatted. Readily applies to just about 
' any control or string, though.
 ' By: Jay Kreusch ' ' ' Inputs:None ' ' Returns:None 
 'Assumes:None
 'Side Effects:Sometimes displays the spl 
' ash screen of another program or a print 
' dialog box
 'This code is copyrighted and has limite 
' d warranties. 'Please see http://www.Planet-Source-Cod 
' e.com/xq/ASP/txtCodeId.10258/lngWId.1/qx
 ' /vb/scripts/ShowCode.htm 
'for details.
 '************************************** 
'All you need to provide is a prefix if 
' desired, and the file extention 
Private Function CreateTempFile(sPrefix As String, sSuffix As String) As String
 Dim sTmpPath As String * 512
 Dim sTmpName As String * 576
 Dim nRet As Long
 'Some API and string manipulation to get
 ' the temp file created
 nRet = GetTempPath(512, sTmpPath)
 If (nRet 0 And nRet <> 0 Then 
sTmpName = Left$(sTmpName,  InStr(sTmpName, vbNullChar) - 1)
 CreateTempFile = Left(Trim(sTmpName), Len(Trim(sTmpName)) - 3) & sSuffix
 End If
 End If 
End Function
 Private Sub Command1_Click() 
Dim sTmpFile As String 
Dim sMsg As String Dim hFile As Long
 'We're trying to print a richtextbox, so
 ' give it something to name
 'it by, and make sure you set the extent 
' ion to rtf.
 'You could print a textbox by using txt,
 ' etc.
 sTmpFile = CreateTempFile("jTmp", "rtf")
 'Gets the next available open number 
hFile = FreeFile
 'open the file and give it the textRTF o 
' f the richtextbox
 'if you don't want to use boxed, you cou 
' ld just pass a string here
 Open sTmpFile For Binary As hFile 
Put #hFile, , RichTextBox1.TextRTF
 Close hFile
 'shell print it 
Call ShellExecute(0&, "Print", sTmpFile, vbNullString, vbNullString, vbHide) 
'delete it.
 Kill sTmpFile 
End Sub 

