'Add To form:
'Command1 and Text1(MultiLine = True)

' Name: A Non-Repeating Random Number Generator
'    
' Description:With this simple, and very
'     fast, routine you can generate a series 
'     of non-repeating random numbers. You can


'     select a series of 10 numbers, or a seri
    '     es of a million...It doesn't matter. Can
    '     be useful for image fades, deck shuffling
    '     , random tip of the day, etc. - It even
    '     tells you how long it took to generate the
    '     series.
' By: Kevin Lawrence
'
'
' Inputs:None
'
' Returns:A popup message stating how many
'     numbers had been mixed up and how long
'     it took.
'
'Assumes:None
'
'Side Effects:The larger the series of numbers
'     the more RAM required. Uses arrays.
'    
'This code is copyrighted and has limited
'     warranties.
'Please see http://www.Planet-Source-Code.
'     com/xq/ASP/txtCodeId.892/lngWId.1/qx/vb
'     /scripts/ShowCode.htm
'for details.

'**************************************

Option Explicit
Dim MaxNumber As Integer
Dim seq As Integer
Dim MainLoop As Integer
Dim ChosenNumber As Integer
Const N = 10

'-------------------------------------------------------------------
Private Sub Command1_Click()
          ' Produces a series of X random numbers 
    '     without repeating any

            'Results can be used by using array B(X)

        Dim A(N) ' Sets the maximum number to pick
        Dim B(N) ' Will be the list of new numbers (same as DIM above)
        Dim x As Integer
                'Set the original array
        MaxNumber = N ' Must equal the DIM above


        For seq = 0 To MaxNumber
            A(seq) = seq
        Next seq
        'Main Loop (mix em all up)
      

        For MainLoop = MaxNumber To 0 Step -1
            ChosenNumber = Int(MainLoop * Rnd)
            B(MaxNumber - MainLoop) = A(ChosenNumber)
            A(ChosenNumber) = A(MainLoop)
        Next MainLoop  
     
 For x = 0 To N
    Text1.Text = B(x) & "   " & Text1.Text
 Next x

    End Sub

